# Can you help me out?

- Topic ID: 692892
- URL: https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/neurogolf-2026/discussion/692892
- Author: donibart (@donibart)
- Posted: 2026-04-18T13:10:27.377368300Z
- Votes: -5
- Total messages: 8

## Body

How can it be that a task is about both: Preventing overfitting yet be minimal yet be evaluated against a private unknown dataset ? Let's translate for the stupid: Looking for a car which is as light as possible (=minimal weight) yet must be able to drive an unknown set of roads. Like 5km 10km 2000km  20000km who the fuck knows? Everybody understands that this engineering task is ill designed. Yet its expected to be solvable in AI ? What am I missing ? Solving logic problems is about understanding a pattern.  So what is asked for is brute forcing combination of patterns to to find an algorithm to solve the probem *THEN* turnign it into the right shape (eg LLM) or GPU code to make it efficient. *AGAIN* How can for the unknown be asked for yet the model ( basically which basically is brute forcing all combinations of imaginable operations )? If a task contains moving rects by prime numbarse 3 5 7 11 13 or such it muts be able to detect prime numbers. How to know whether the hidden tasks contain prime number logic ? Additionally the solution (see above) brute forcing and then cerating onnx is not what's asked for (the onnx) ? Additonally Loop + Scan + NonZero + Unique + Script + Function. are disallowed ? Ok for loops there is tensor unrolling left. Now how to prepare for the unknown if ou can't bake learning in ? So is this task already well defined ? So best which is possible *IS* overfitting to the known tasks because the unknown cannot be predicted thus minimizing ? Then trying to find a way to compress and minimize  footbrint. But its alrady known that for each task a specialized layer should be read doing exactly that one task. Because loops can't be used (?) unrolling must be optimized number of layers vs layer size (kernel size how many pixel it processes in one go). Now adding completion of a case will increase overall size thus add a penalty to all other tasks. >To be eligible for points, your network must produce correct results across all of these tests.

<     Meaning you have to solve all th eprivaet unknown challenges. Meaning it doens't really make sense to start at all ? Because its unlikely you wil solve the unknown, right ?    @kaggle !?  Do you have review processes ? Or do you like wasting time of all ? Or am I missing something ?

## Comments (8)

- **Luke G** (2026-04-18T23:11:42.793Z, votes: {'totalVotes': 3, 'canUpvote': True, 'totalUpvotes': 3}):
  This is just my guess, but I think it'd be safe to assume that the hidden tests are generated by the same processes as the public tests. You can read the [ARC-GEN code](https://github.com/google/arc-gen) to see what the exact specifications are, and even run it yourself to produce more tests.
  
  For context, in the previous code golf competition, despite the usage of ~200 tests per problem, there were still a few tasks where hardcoding the answer was optimal. Having a small number of hidden tests is the simplest way to defeat this tactic.

  - **(unknown)** (2026-04-19T14:53:39.070Z, votes: {}):
    (deleted)

- **Russell Kirk** (2026-04-18T17:42:23.880Z, votes: {'totalVotes': 4, 'canUpvote': True, 'totalUpvotes': 4}):
  Maybe re-frame the question.  The problem is like saying, for this pattern, what is the cheapest way to repeat it?
  
  
  If you need to write a program to produce "121212," Do you need to encode all the other digits? What is the smallest description that produces "121212" without writing "121212" itself.  I think that is what the competition is about, perhaps I'm wrong.  Anyway, there's a lot of valid ways to describe a pattern that results in 121212, but among them, which is the shortest?

  - **donibart** (2026-04-18T21:43:06.263Z, votes: {'totalVotes': -1, 'canUpvote': True}):
    of course forever print "12" but isn't that overfitted because it only can do this one task ?

    - **Russell Kirk** (2026-04-18T21:57:32.947Z, votes: {'totalVotes': 1, 'canUpvote': True, 'totalUpvotes': 1}):
      I didn't design my example well enough to match up with the competition, but an overfit might be more like "always take first 2 digits" when the actual pattern is "take the first (PERIOD) of digits."
      
      So the competition, again from my understanding, is about how do you detect that? And write it efficiently?

    - **donibart** (2026-04-19T15:12:25.920Z, votes: {'totalVotes': 1, 'canUpvote': True, 'totalUpvotes': 1}):
      I guess I missread the task. Makes senes now. Thanks. So the basic job is for all 400+ cases or such identify the logic. then define a parameter space for kernel size eg x/y or different ways of unrolling or such .. and then identify the the kernel size giving most points balancing speed vs size. And if there are more than one algorithm to yield the result you feel lucky or have to do use your gut feeling to choose one.

    - **Russell Kirk** (2026-04-19T22:42:00.380Z, votes: {'canUpvote': True}):
      Yea, it was confusing for me at first too.   The gut feeling comes with experience and lots of failures :D
      
      But best hint probably: "How do I tell A from B?" asked in many different ways.
      
      e.g. What is difference if the second pattern I gave you was....
      131313
      
      or 123123123
      or 12121212
      
      Those all induce a different subsequent pattern, and importantly, change the answer to what is the VARIABLE and what is INVARIANT.

  - **SDes** (2026-05-23T13:25:56.933Z, votes: {'totalVotes': 1, 'canUpvote': True, 'totalUpvotes': 1}):
    Hi thanks, I also got very confused. And only by reading your answer I understood the competition
